The Personality Insights service lends itself to an almost limitless number of potential applications. By leveraging the Big Five personality characteristics, Needs, and Values, businesses and individuals alike can make more informed and more insightful decisions, and make more effective use of limited resources.

Businesses can market to the most receptive target audience, they can acquire and retain more customers, and they can develop services that connect individuals and groups more effectively. Individuals can optimize how they market themselves to potential employers.

The following sections suggest just a few of the potential applications of the Personality Insights service. Use this information to kickstart your own applications or to develop your own innovative ideas.

Targeted marketing

Imagine an in-store retail experience that involves an interactive kiosk. Customers log in to the kiosk with a social media handle such as a Twitter ID. The kiosk quickly presents a set of personalized product and service offerings based on the customers' personality characteristics, needs, and values. The products and services include marketing campaigns, coupons, trial offers, and recommendations that are suited to each individual customer. The results match the right offerings to the most receptive customers, improving both the effectiveness of the offers and customer satisfaction.

With the Personality Insights service, businesses can make this idea a reality. By leveraging a combination of enterprise and social media data, businesses can apply analytics to develop deeper portraits of individual customers. They can use the results for better-quality lead generation, finer-grained customer segmentation, and focused marketing that is both more relevant and more personal.

By using the Personality Insights service with other IBM offerings, such as Unica and BigInsights Social Data Accelerator (SDA), enterprises can derive insights from a vast pool of transactional and social media data. These insights can help businesses to

Extract early, near real-time signals of customers' purchase intentions to identify quality leads.
Derive customer portraits that include intrinsic psychological preferences, which can dictate customers' economic decisions.
Create hyper-personalized marketing plans based on customers' intrinsic and behavioral preferences to improve conversion rates.
Find and engage the right target audience at the right time to launch effective marketing campaigns.
Based on social media data, businesses can dynamically identify and engage with high-value customers from among millions of loyalty program members to

Dynamically improve customer satisfaction and actively manage brand reputation by delivering the personalized products and services that customers need, when they need them.
Take advantage of business opportunities to test new offerings by making product trials available to customers who are more likely to value them.
Customer acquisition

Personality portraits that are generated by the Personality Insights service can help businesses strengthen existing customer relationships and identify new customers. For example, people whose personalities evince a greater tendency for orderliness, self-discipline, and cautiousness and less immoderation are more likely than the random population to redeem coupons. Similarly, people's propensity to purchase specific kinds of products correlates with their personality characteristics. For example, shoppers whose personalities tend toward openness and conscientiousness are more likely to purchase organic milk, fruits, and vegetables.

Retailers benefit from sending coupons to people whose social media content exhibits the intersection of these personality characteristics, whether they are existing or potential customers. By not sending coupons to those customers who do not redeem them, businesses save direct marketing costs. They also avoid flooding customers with coupons that they do not want and will discard, a pattern that can eventually lead customers to discard coupons from the retailer altogether.

Combining personality portraits with life events inferred from social media and with existing enterprise demographic data can yield meaningful insights into the consumption patterns and preferences of individual customers. For instance, families with a newborn are likely to begin purchasing diapers. Retailers can use the Personality Insights service to infer whether such families are more likely to prefer cloth or disposable diapers, and they can send the families coupons that match that inference. By combining personality characteristics and life events in this way, retailers can leverage the added insight to increase customer response and to generate new customers.

Businesses can also analyze large groups of customers based on their publicly available social media content and behavior to capitalize on targeted revenue-generating opportunities. The Personality Insights service can help businesses improve the success of future marketing campaigns by understanding which messages or products appeal to which customer segments. A business would first cluster customers with known behavior in terms of personality characteristics. It would then derive mapping rules from personality to behavior based on segmentation knowledge gleaned from the clusters.

Customer care

Over the course of the customer engagement lifecycle, enterprises can use the Personality Insights service to build better, more lasting relationships with their customers. By better understanding customers and responding to them as individuals, businesses can

Recommend and guide customers' actions through personalized exchanges across different channels such as online chats, social media engagements, and email communications. Enhanced understanding can lead to improved interactions with customers, which in turn can improve brand reputation, increase customer retention, and encourage up- and cross-sales opportunities.
Use customers' personality characteristics to determine which interaction medium to use, what web page to display, and what video to share.
Present agents with information about a client who contacts the business. This information can let the agent give the client a more personalized experience by providing hints about how to talk to the client.
Consider a traveler who uses an online travel service to obtain recommendations for places to visit or dine. The travel service can examine the traveler's personality characteristics and suggest personalized site-seeing locations and restaurants that suit the traveler's personality. The service can go even further by working with local merchants to offer personalized coupons that match the traveler's interests.

Personal connections

The Personality Insights service can match individuals and groups. Possible permutations can encourage individual-to-individual, individual-to-group, group-to-individual, and group-to-group connections by matching personality characteristics in the following domains:

Personal dating via individual-to-individual matching.
Travel agent to traveler by offering suitable vacation packages to appropriate travelers.
Customer care agent to caller by matching call-center agents to callers.
Investment broker to investor by matching brokers to investors with whom they are likely to connect.
Suppose that a client contacts a brokerage firm to learn which investment funds to pursue. This scenario suggests a matching use case that leverages the client's personality characteristics to better satisfy the client's needs. By using the Personality Insights service, the firm can match the client to a broker who matches the client's personality and can suggest investment options that suit the client's preferences and inclinations. Moreover, the broker who is assigned to the client can use the service to prepare an individualized message for the client.

Resume writing

A recent graduate needs to write a resume that is optimized for industries that match the graduate's degree and interests. An application from a recent Watson Hackathon suggests developing optimal industry-specific resumes from excellent past examples. The application can use Watson services to determine the characteristics of optimal baseline resumes for maximum resonance with each industry.

After creating a resume, the graduate uses the application to learn how well the resume compares with the optimal baseline. The application uses the Personality Insights service to analyze the resume. It highlights potential issues and suggests changes to better align the personality characteristics and values that are disclosed by the resume with those of the baseline.

